focus for this project was to understand the relationship between the funding and other factors collected from various sources and investigate which have the most substantial impact on funding.
Using this information, the team generated a model to forecast the upcoming year’s funding expectations and a dashboard which would display the features we determined had the greatest impact on funding.
First data was gathered from multiple sources included from the libraries themselves, the Ontario data website, and the stats Canada website. We then preformed correlation analysis to determine which factors were the most significant. There were over 70 features with correlation higher than 0.8.
Using these highly correlated features a predictive model was generated which had an underfitting problem. This was addressed by reducing the features further. Then there was an overfitting problem which also required a reduction in features. Our final model was an extra tree regression model with an accuracy of 87%.
The features selected to be displayed in the dashboard were the current funding amounts, the predicted funding amounts, expenses (due to it making up 4 of the top 5 most correlated features), population (due to being the most significance feature to the predictive model) and the ratio of spending on print vs electronic material (due to the main goal of Ontario public libraries being to provide materials).
If implemented this predictive model and dashboard could allow the government to estimate future funding needs for libraries, make business decision such as deciding where to build new libraries based on their predicted funding requirements, and help the government more accurately budget for funding of Ontario libraries.
